In the last lecture We optimized the way we load some of the models.
So for example we optimized the way we load blog posts together with its relations like tags comment
count and the outer of that blog post.
Now you can see that inside the post controller we are making a query which is exactly the same as it
is being constructed on the post stuck controller with the difference that here we use the blog posts
a relation of a tag.
But what we can do is well we can actually move all of this code to the model and create a new scope
because what you can see here in those local scopes is they are basically adding something to the query
so we can simply do something like public function scope latest with relations.
Now we have to provide the instance of the query builder
and we can immediately return everything that we do here so we can call the scope from within the scope.
So we'll do latest with count with user and with tax so let's copy that and move that to the local query
scope now save the changes and what we can do now is instead of having the same query constructed in
two places we can instead call it like that latest for relations on the post controller.
But then we are accessing the relation as a method.
So we basically have access to all the query methods and also to the local query scope so here we can
also do latest with relations
now save the changes and after refreshing the page where we feel that by tag you can see that still
the same amount of queries is made and that everything works perfectly.
So this is another optimization you can make whenever you see you are making or constructing queries
that are essentially the same in more than one place then it is a good candidate to move it to the single
place because anyway when something fails it's always best to have a single point of failure.
And what that means is whenever you see something is incorrect then well you know where to look for
it.
And otherwise if you construct the same query in different places.
Well you are basically prone to errors.
You can forget something in some place and with things like that you aren't forgetting anything because
there is only one place where things can break.
And also it is great for test stability because you basically test your code in one place and if you
will break something with this method then whatever tests you might be having for listing blog posts
with tags and generally blog posts you should see that on you when your tests fail.